and just a reminder that uh dr k's
guides to mental health are going to be
dropping probably in august
so it's a chance for people to get a
more kind of personalized experience
on a mental health journey the way that
it's kind of organized is sort of like
what
i think about what i do with actual
clients and what i do with clients is
not like you know one size fits all
solution it's sort of like a branching
logic
and so the goal of the guides is to
actually like kind of walk that
branching journey that you sort of pick
at each of the branch points like what
you want to do
obviously you can do it all but it
really sort of is designed to be like
similar to what happens in my head
when i'm sitting down with a person it's
going to hopefully be ready in august
pre-orders are available now
okay so today we are going to talk
a little bit about um why men struggle
in relationships
and this is a really important topic
because i think that a lot of times
um we're conditioned in a particular way
we're raised in a particular way and it
tends to create problems in our
relationship
so this lecture is really geared at
people who sort of like fit the
following kind of like criteria
okay so if you if you feel like the
stuff that i'm about to say applies to
you hopefully this will be helpful
so the first thing is that you're
confused by inner turmoil like when
you're in a relationship sometimes you
feel angry
sometimes you feel frustrated and upset
but you also feel really stupid for
feeling that way
second reason to you know that this may
apply to you
is that you feel like sometimes other
people do a bad job in a relationship
but you have a lot of trouble
articulating what they're doing wrong
third reason um that this may be
relevant to you is that
you're someone who kind of feels cold or
numb in relationship kind of like a
robot
like some parts of you want to connect
with people more authentically
but you keep them at arm's length you
you tend to become
really uncomfortable when people get too
close but you also don't want them to
leave
so it's sort of like you get stuck in
this kind of like limbo zone where you
want to be closer to people
but you
and and just be done with it all and so
this is something that i've seen more
commonly in men it can certainly happen
in women as well um but we're going to
talk a little bit more
specifically about men because some of
the things that i think
some of the way that we're conditioned
and raised as men
tends us it makes us more vulnerable to
some of these states
now the next thing to kind of think
about is that it you you all could be
dating someone who's like this
so if you're in a relationship with
someone
here are some of the signs that it looks
like from a partner's perspective
the first and foremost is mixed signals
okay
this is where like someone will say to
you like your partner will say to you
i'm fine nothing is wrong when like
clearly something is wrong
sometimes your partner will get moody
without a clear explanation and when you
ask them like
what's wrong there aren't they either
don't tell you or they're not even
able to tell you like you're clear it's
clear that they're upset about something
but when you're like what's wrong
they're like nothing
nothing nothing's wrong nothing's wrong
and
in in good cases you know usually we see
this pattern where like people will be
moody for like
a week and they'll kind of like
naturally come out of it and they'll be
back to their
their normal selves in more severe
or kind of like negative situations what
actually happens is that people will
like
hold on to and harbor resentment that
moodiness sort of lingers in a
relationship and cert can really start
to create toxicity
sometimes partners can get very confused
when like
um you know you your partner gets mad at
you for seemingly like benign or trivial
things
and the last thing is once again that
people will your partner kind of keeps
you at arm's length
so like they're kind of sending you
mixed signals that they want to be
closer maybe they want to be more
intimate
want to be more authentic want to be
connected but anytime you try to get
close to them or you start to get close
to them
they push you away so this is kind of
like
you know it's been my observation that
men sometimes struggle in relationships
due to these things
and so what we're gonna try to do this
can actually it can certainly happen to
women as well
um or you know non-binary people
but at the end of the day i see the
pattern more commonly in men
and so what we're going to do is try to
explain to all you know why does this
happen why are we socialized this way
what is sort of going on psychologically
and scientifically like
in our minds in our development that
leads us to this way and then we're
going to end up with sort of practical
tips
as to what to do about it going forward
so it turns out that a lot of this stuff
has
has to do with something that called
attachment theory okay
so what we're going to do is explain a
little bit about attachment theory
this starts off with discussing
something called the strange situation
there was a great um psychoanalyst named
john bowelby who i think back in the 70s
designed a really interesting experiment
called the strange situation
so in the the strange situation which
you've got is a mother
usually in a kid and they're in a room
and then what happens is mom leaves the
room and then a stranger
enters the room okay so stranger comes
in and mom leaves so now the kid is
suddenly like
alone with a stranger and then what
happens a little while later is
mom usually comes back into the room and
is is kind of back
and so what bowelbee kind of noticed is
that um
there are actually like a lot of
different ways that the child actually
responds to this situation
and so over time there were other
researchers who kind of contributed to
this work
work and eventually they sort of came up
with
four kinds of what we call attachment
so the first kind of attachment is
something called secure attachment
so what happens in this case is the
parent leaves the room an
insecure in secure attachment
the child may start to cry when the
stranger enters so they'll cry
but when mom comes back they are easily
comforted
so they like calm down real quick like
if mom is around
um i'm totally fine like it's not a big
deal
they also notice that there was a second
set of kids who
when mom leaves they also start to cry
but when mom comes back they seem to be
like really really like
torn so they start to get like kind of
clingy
but then also like are sort of like not
quite as clingy
as another set of kids they tend to
like get a little bit frustrated get a
little bit angry
um tend to be like kind of like confused
like they they want to go to mom for
affection
but they sort of like feel torn and they
seem kind of like
stuck they kind of start to send mixed
signals
okay and then the third type is the
anxious avoidant attachment
and in these kids it's really
interesting so like when they when mom
leaves they start to become
anxious they start they may start to cry
but when mom comes back they
actually like don't go to mom for
comfort and instead what they do is they
they sort of like become kind of like
independent
um and they'll sort of like they won't
go to mom for comfort even though
they're kind of upset and they'll sort
of like remain independent
they'll move somewhat close to mom so
they'll like move like a little bit
closer
but they won't actually go to mom for
like comfort or security
and then the last category of people so
like they sort of remain
independent and the last category of
people are have insecure attachment
which is they freak out when mom leaves
the room
and even when when mom returns they're
inconsolable so they'll start to cry
when mom leaves
and even when mom comes back like
they'll still continue crying
and what we're going to focus on is
actually these two okay so this is like
what we're going to talk about today
so the anxious ambivalent attachment
style and the anxious avoidant
attachment style
and essentially what balby discovered is
that these
kinds of responses actually have a lot
to do with the way that we're raised or
that was his theory anyway
and he sort of realized that when
caregivers give us
inconsistent responses to
our need for affection we end up as
anxious ambivalent
so what that sort of means is if i like
hurt my leg and
and i get a boo-boo and i go to mom how
does mom respond to me so
for the people with secure attachment
every time i get hurt mom is there and
is
is comforting for insecure attachment um
it can be it gets a little bit
complicated but generally saying
speaking we can say that mom is not very
comforting her parents aren't very
comforting
for the anxious ambivalent attachment
style what we see is
inconsistent caregiving this is going to
be somewhat true of avoidant as well
um but sometimes like so sometimes mom
is like really care
like is really warm and loving and other
times like mom is like
not warm and loving and so what that
what that does is tends to confuse us
and so we never know like this child the
anxious ambivalent child
never knows like what to expect
and so what that means is that there's a
part of them that's like okay let me go
and like get comfort from mom
but then there's also part of them
that's like well sometimes when i get
comfort from mom
like mom sort of gets like you know
doesn't give me what i need
and so what that sort of results in is
kind of this like clinical presentation
of mixed signals so like this is what
this kind of looks like so it's really
characterized by mixed signals
okay and what we mean by mixed signals
is like these can be internal or
external so in the relationship you can
send signals to someone that you know
you're upset
but at the same time like if they ask
you are you upset
you're gonna say no so are you upset and
then you
say no but you mean yes so that's one
key characteristic of the anxious
ambivalent attachment style
the other thing is that this mixed
signal doesn't have to be external it
can also be internal
so these people have inner turmoil so
they feel a lot of like
internal conflict feeling frustrated
angry
upset and then they also feel like very
stupid for feeling that way
so they're like kind of confused
internally they're like i don't
understand
why i'm so upset or angry like i don't
really know what's wrong
and sometimes what happens is that these
people actually like
they have they have a lot of difficulty
in relationships
because there are things that will set
them off so they get
ticked off but they're not really able
to articulate
what it is that's wrong right so this
kind of goes back to the mixed signals
because
like are you upset like clearly i'm
upset
but i'm not able to articulate like
what's wrong
and the reason for that actually has to
do with the the roots of how like
these anxious these attachment styles
develop which is emotional mirroring
so what happens when we're young is that
we don't really understand
what we feel emotionally and so the way
that we discover
and start to learn our internal
emotional state
is through the mirroring of the adults
around us so this is best exemplified by
this example of like
you know when there's a kid that's
running around like a toddler and they
trip and fall
and then like there's a brief moment
where the toddler will look around at
the adults in the room
if the adults in the room freak out and
express to the child oh my god are you
okay then the toddler will start crying
but if all of the adults start laughing
the toddler will be like
i'm not hurt at all so it's kind of like
really fascinating because
early on like you can think about you
know if i'm a one-year-old like how do i
know
what i'm feeling the way that i know
what i'm feeling
is through the emotional expressions of
people around me
so like when i'm a child and i get a
boo-boo
and i go to mom and mom is like oh you
poor baby let me
like help you let me make it feel better
so i'm feeling hurt mom expresses
concern and the world makes sense
so things get really confusing when that
that emotional mirroring is inconsistent
so when i'm hurt and mom tells me to
like
shut the hell up and sit down then it's
like i'm like wait what how does this
work when i feel this way
and mom tells me to shut the hell up did
i do something wrong
and then at other times when mom's in a
good mood and i hurt myself and i go to
mom and
she's like oh you poor thing and so it's
like really confusing like what do i
feel
is the feeling that i have good or is
the feeling that i have bad like what is
this emotion
and so children are actually like
they're not they don't know what their
internal feeling is
this is further reinforced by especially
this is thankfully changing now but like
you know by the conditioning that we
tend to do towards
boys versus girls right so this is like
starting to even out but if you go to
most parts of the world it really isn't
where you know boys are told to like not
express emotion
essentially right we won't say that
explicitly we won't even say
don't express emotion because we don't
even have that degree of eq what we'll
say is like man up or stop crying or
boys don't cry or you need to do this or
you need to man up or like whatever
right if you're hanging out at school
and you start crying like
what are the other kids going to do to
you like the kids are going to make fun
of you
right and like even teachers will
sometimes like
treat you poorly you know parents
siblings things like that like we're not
taught to express emotion
and so the interesting thing is as we
are taught to not express emotion
our ability to learn what our emotional
state is
gets handicapped right because remember
the way that we learn what our internal
emotional state is
is through the emotional mirroring of
other people so when i stop
communicating with people about what my
emotional state is like even if i don't
know what it is
if i stop talking about it and i just
kind of manage it on my own
what i'm essentially relying on is like
parts of my brain to like
acclimatize and just turn off so i don't
actually learn anything
so there's there's interesting research
that shows that you know if you get
angry you're not going to stay angry for
10 years
there's our our brain has a natural
homeostatic mechanism which sort of
explains the weak of moodiness
right so you feel really moody you feel
upset by something you're not quite sure
what you're upset by
you feel kind of angry you feel kind of
confused and this is all because you
were never
taught like how to understand what you
feel
because people tend to be socialized or
conditioned
to not express their feelings and like
not communicate with other people
this gets further compounded by the fact
that like if you think about you know
dads
like your dad let's say you're 20 years
old now and your dad became a dad in
2001 and so then like you think about
your dad's upbringing right so like your
your dad may have been born like in 1970
and so what was his emotional
understanding and
how does he pass on that emotional
understanding on to you right because
like
how is your dad going to teach you if he
never learned like how to be in touch
with his emotions
so we see like definitely a conditioning
effect a socializing effect
that leads to ignorance of your internal
emotional state
probably through a lack of mirroring as
well as like social conditioning
that leads us to be confused about what
our internal emotional state is
and so we wind up with this anxious
ambivalent attachment style which is one
of the two things that we're going to
cover which is sort of like all about
turmoil confusion ambivalence
and like mixed signals and this can
make relationships really really
difficult because like
there can be something that upsets you
but then you can't articulate to the
person like
what they did wrong and the reason that
you can't articulate
may be because of some amount of
emotional vulnerability
some amount of self-judgment so this is
really common where people like they
feel
stupid telling this person yeah like
you you know did this like you didn't
call me like
on thursday and like that really hurt my
feelings like we're just not taught how
to say things like that
because what we're actually taught like
you have this voice in your head
that's like you shouldn't feel that way
like what what difference does it make
like
you should be able to handle it if your
girlfriend doesn't call you on a
thursday like even if it's kind of an
important day to you like
you should grow the [ __ ] up man like
come on right
so like that's that anxious ambivalent
attachment style kind of like
coming through right and so as that kind
of
shame and as that self-judgment arises
it makes it difficult for you to
communicate
and then causes problems in the
relationship because then your
girlfriend is kind of like i don't know
what i did wrong did i do something
wrong you're like no
no i'm fine i'm fine and then you just
kind of like
wait a week and then you start to feel a
little bit better and then you kind of
forget about it so a couple of other
interesting things
um so people with an anxious ambivalent
attachment style
also have a couple of interesting
behavioral correlations we're not going
to go too much into that
but it's really interesting because
these people have low self-esteem which
sort of makes sense
they also have a low amount of intrinsic
motivation which is really fascinating
so for a lot of people who feel like oh
i'm lazy i'm undisciplined
they're actually studies that show that
low intrinsic motivation
is associated with a particular kind of
attachment style
and sometimes you all may understand
this because like you know they're the
people who are just like good at life
that are not like
us like they're emotionally in touch
with themselves they're like confident
they're brave
and they go out and they work hard and
they do their resume on time and they
study for their tests
and they apply like for things at the
right time like
you know there are those people and we
get so confused because like why do
these people
have what seems like everything and we
have nothing
and it turns out that they're actually
like correlations right like so there
are correlations between
secure attachment confidence and
intrinsic motivation and if you're one
of those people fantastic
so i used to be an anxious ambivalent
kind of person
or even anxious avoidance which we'll
get to and now i think i've got pretty
secure attachment
all right so anxious ambivalent
attachment
is what we call a resistant attachment
so what this means
is that it it's a it's an attachment
that's characterized by feelings of both
anger and helplessness when the
caregiver returns the child is
ambivalent
they seek contact but also rebuff it
it's kind of like this conditional
strategy to preemptively take control
of the interaction so what this sort of
means is that i'm going to keep you at
arm's length so that you
can't hurt me by leaving again but i
also want you to be close to me
i don't really like this situation but
it's the best thing that i can do to
protect myself
like it's kind of you're stuck between
wanting more in a relationship
and also not wanting to be hurt again
okay
so what this sort of means is like this
is what the mixed signals are because
there's a part of you that's like
if i put myself out there and i let this
person connect to me which is really
what i want
what that means is that they could leave
the room again
and then i'm gonna be left like all on
my own
and so like you know it it really is
sort of like this protective mechanism
that we sort of engage in
where there's a part of us that wants to
reach out and connect and there's a part
of us that's like don't do that because
they're just going to hurt you again
and and so what this means is when when
people sort of kind of going back to the
motivation thing what this kind of what
this ambivalence means so ambivalence
means being like
you know uh 50 yes and 50
no being on the fence is this is what
sort of leads to this like intrinsic
lack of motivation because what happens
is
these people are always on the fence
right there's a part of you that's
saying like i want to apply for this job
and there's a part of you that's saying
but if you apply for the job you could
get rejected and that's going to hurt
so this is sort of what the the anxious
ambivalent attachment style looks
looks like which is a resistant
attachment like i
am attached but i'm like not thrilled
about it so that's the anxious
ambivalent attachment
now what we're gonna talk about is the
anxious avoidant attachment so the
anxious avoidant attachment
is gonna be like present like this okay
so it's gonna be like
the emotional robot is what i call it so
you guys may know
you know you may feel this way or you
may be like this or you may know someone
like that
so it was people who are like numb and
cold
so like they're all so fiercely
independent and so we'll go more into
this
but like this is people who have like
sort of a safe zone
you kind of have this place where you
like to hang out
and that place is like not too close but
also not too far
right you're not like anti-social and
don't form relationships at all
what it is is like you want to be in
this really safe zone where like you can
remain independent you don't have to
rely on anyone
where like you don't have to feel
emotionally hurt and you don't have to
feel
connected from a partner perspective
these people so from the partner
perspective
these your partner keeps you at arm's
length
they don't want you to come close but
they don't want you to get too far
so we're gonna like we're gonna stay in
the safe zone
and the problem with this is that these
people even though they feel
numb and cold and they they kind of feel
like they're emotional robots
the safe zone is very unsatisfying so
it's safe
but it's like not a fun place to be so
sometimes people who have anxious
avoidant
attachment styles like they want more
like they recognize that they shouldn't
be this way they recognize that they're
missing something
important in the relationship they just
don't know what to do about it
so going back remember this is the the
situation where
um you know the parent comes back and
the kid is like
not really too messed up about it they
kind of remain
unruffled so i think the best way to
kind of categorize this
is using the word unruffled so they're
calm in the face of separation
and at the same time they actually like
uh even though they they appear calm
this is actually
uh a mask for their internal distress
so these people may appear fiercely
independent but internally
they're like really really distressed
about it and this is what's really cool
about this
is so you know when researchers they
were doing the study like with
two-year-olds right so what researchers
were trying to figure out is okay it
seems like the kid actually doesn't care
whether like mom is in the room
or mom is not in the room and they were
theorizing like maybe this is a mask for
distress like we're gonna
pretend to be strong and we're gonna say
like even though they're internally like
they're really freaking out
on the outside they're like yeah it's no
big deal like i can handle this i'm cool
like it's a shell
so what researchers did was measure the
heart rates of the children
who appeared to be completely fine and
what they
actually found is that physiologically
these children are depressed
i mean distressed okay so what happened
is like they would measure the heart
rates and what they'd find is that like
the kid is putting on this facade of
being like totally fine and not needing
connection and being independent
but internally their heart is hammering
right so they actually are
physiologically very very distressed
and so the anxious avoidant attachment
style is sort of like a protection
against like the emotional hurt okay
so um what this actually means is that
the the kids are not
actually fine right they may appear to
be fine and even in the case of the
anxious avoided
attachment style you may feel cold and
numb but it's not
actually healthy like you've learned how
to adapt to the circumstance
but it's not actually good for you so
the anxious avoidant attachment style
is caused by when a child communicates
their emotional needs
and they essentially get like no
response
so remember the ambivalent attachment
style is an inconsistent response
but the avoidant attachment style
happens when you communicate your
emotional needs
and you get like essentially like a
neutral response or no response
that's when you learn to become avoidant
and also like fiercely independent
right so what this what what researchers
sort of discovered is that when
the parent's response to you is not
influenced
by you expressing your needs you put up
this emotional wall
and you sort of like really rely on that
independence
so when voicing your needs essentially
does not get a good response so like a
classic
example of this is like being told the
man up
right this is like the most classical
example like i'm hurting i go to my dad
and my dad is like
why are you crying like men don't cry
man up and so this is also caused by
your emotional needs being rebuffed and
this sort of creates like
a really problematic cycle and this is
something that i see a lot
which is that like as men become more
unable to communicate their emotional
needs
their subtle attempts at emotional
connection tend to
be perceived as rebuffed so remember if
i'm like independent and i'm an
island and like i don't want to hurt
myself i don't want to risk being hurt
and furthermore if i'm like kind of
alexa thymic and i don't understand what
i feel or why
i'm even upset remember i'm emotionally
numb
so if i'm emotionally numb and don't
feel a whole lot of stuff
when i like communicate to people that i
have emotional needs
like i'm gonna be really bad at that
communication right because i'm not
gonna be able to say like
hey this really hurt me and i was really
looking forward to spending this weekend
with you but
you went out with your friends and i
felt like emotionally neglected
and unlovable you don't know how to say
that
so instead what you do is like you just
ask your partner you're like hey do you
want to hang out
on sunday for brunch and they're like oh
i was planning on doing this and you're
like okay cool
and you don't tell them what it means to
you and then inside what you feel is
like that rejection
right because you never signal to them
and the more you get rejected the more
independent you become the more you like
stay in that safe zone where you don't
want to like get too close but you also
like really like your partner right so
you don't want to like break up with
them
and so you end up by withdrawing so
these infants withdraw from their
caregivers
and and this is where things get really
weird because actually what
we do is like we withdraw just enough
but we never leave entirely
so we enter this like paradoxical like
limbo zone which is also like the safe
zone
where it's like i'm never going to get
close to you but i
i want to be close to you so i'm never
going to leave and so it creates this
kind of really tricky situation where
like men have difficulty connecting
women can do this too
but i think that men once again are more
socialized to this kind of behavior
and so we kind of stay at the threshold
of a close relationship
and we're scared to move closer and
we're scared to move further away
okay so that's the anxious avoidant
attachment style
fiercely independent i don't want to get
too close i don't want to get too far
i'm kind of safe over here but i'm also
unsatisfied
i have a lot of difficulty communicating
my emotional needs
okay so now the question becomes okay
like what do we do it about this okay
like okay so like dr k this is fine this
is who i am you've described me i'm
either the
anxious ambivalent or the anxious
avoidant person i'm a situ
i definitely fall into the camp of being
like
emotionally torn and having in inner
turmoil or you're dating someone who's
sending you mixed signals
hey are you upset with me no i'm fine
did i do something wrong no
it's fine i'm telling you it's fine
right like that's one example or the the
avoidance like yeah like whatever man
like
you can do whatever you want to and then
like you're like
wait are you upset no man i'm cool it's
all good
like you do it's fine like really like
and then sometimes what what
you can even see is like you know fear
of becoming dependent
where it's sort of like this is like
we're fear of commitment or like these
other kind of
you know societal things that we say oh
like this dude is afraid of commitment
it's not that he's afraid of commit i
mean maybe that's a good way to put it
actually but like
there's other stuff going on right it's
not like he doesn't he doesn't
just dislike commitment for the sake of
commitment it's sort of that
it's not that he's like afraid of
commitment in general it's that like he
doesn't know if he can trust you
and this is where things get really
confusing because like he sends these
like
minor minor signals to his partner that
are sort of like hey can i trust you are
you like able to see what i'm feeling
here
and then the partner is oblivious which
is not really their fault because the
signals are very very tiny
and then they get rebuffed and it sort
of creates this this
like vicious cycle so we kind of end up
with this anxious ambivalent attachment
style and anxious avoidance attachment
style
now if we go back to the original
research by bowelby what bowelbee kind
of hypothesizes and what other people
later hypothesized is that all this
stuff is formed in childhood
so like if if we sort of look at the
people who are like intrinsically
motivated and securely attached
they lucked out because they had good
parents and like i
got the short stick because my parents
were not emotionally available to me
so it turns out that that's actually not
true and now we're going to go to a
really interesting article from
current opinion in psychology so as
people have started to look at
the origin of attachment style and how
attachment style
develops there's a really important
lesson to be learned here
which is that foundations are not fake
and what this means is that your
attachment style for
early on is determined by socialization
so what this means is this is the
parental influence okay
so like when i'm a one-year-old my
attachment style is absolutely
determined by my parents for the most
part
okay but the cool thing that researchers
have developed is that when you look at
adults
the way that you are raised starts to
matter less and less and less
and what matters is what they call
selection effects
so socialization is your environment and
selection is your choices
so people play an active role in
selecting and shaping their
interpersonal environments
which means that if you fall into one of
these categories
your parents may have gotten you off on
a particular trajectory
but it's ultimately the people that you
choose to hang out with
which is going to determine whether your
attachment style stays
insecure or becomes secure
okay so this is your spawn point right
like this is my starting gear
but as it turns out the further i go
into the game just like video games
the further i go into the game i have
more of a choice about how i play
right because when i spawn like this is
my starting equipment like it's the same
like i can't do anything about that
but every every level that i gain and
every time like i get a new shop i can
start to control
you know what my gear looks like how i
spend my skill points etc
so the cool thing so if you're worried
about this and you're asking me what do
i do about it
there are a couple of really simple
things that we can do about it okay
the first is to understand that your
fate is not set in stone
and essentially the people that you hang
out with
will determine how your attachment style
evolves
so this is where you have to be really
really careful so like
are the people that you're hanging out
with able to emotionally
like help you out some can they be
supportive
can you turn to someone and say hey i'm
feeling kind of confused right now can
you help me figure out how i feel
so we're going to give you actually some
very key dialogue okay
so if you fall into these categories
anxious ambivalent or anxious avoidant
what i want you to do when you're
feeling a particular way and remember
these are the signs right so
if you're anxious ambivalent you're
going to feel angry
frustrated confused and you're going to
feel dumb
right so like you're going to have those
feelings of anger and frustration
you're going to be kind of confused why
you feel that way and you're going to
judge yourself for feeling that way
that's
that's the presentation so if you find
yourself feeling that way
who is someone that you can communicate
that to and just communicate it to him
directly like ideally a romantic partner
so that's sort of the assumption we're
having here
and you go to your partner boyfriend
girlfriend whatever and you say
hey i'm feeling and if they ask you are
you is something wrong
you can even say something like hey i
can't tell what's wrong but something
feels wrong
i am upset but i don't understand why
i'm upset
i am upset and i feel stupid for being
upset
so you literally communicate with them
to them what you're feeling
now what's why is this hard because when
we think about immune emotional
communication
we think that we should have everything
figured out on the
inside before we communicate with
someone
right because we think to ourselves that
like what the hell is someone gonna do
with that
yeah i'm upset but i don't know why i'm
upset
like how are they supposed to deal with
that so then we feel ashamed for even
communicating something that's like half
baked
like how would they deal with that and i
know that that feels like very very like
stupid to do but that's exactly what we
need to do
because here's the cool thing right
remember that attachment style has to do
with emotional mirroring
so as you share a half-baked
communication about your feelings
that gives your partner the opportunity
to be like confused with you they don't
have to figure it all out
but then the two of y'all figure it out
together
and so then they may say something like
okay i don't know what to do with that
and then you're gonna say yeah i don't
know what to do with that and that makes
me feel stupid
and like this is like and then like you
may feel embarrassed for
for sort of saying that but it's really
amazing if you give your partner the
opportunity to support you
you know and then like they may say like
okay i don't know what to do but like if
something occurs to you like please let
me know and if you are the partner and
someone shares something like that with
you
you can kind of be honest with them hey
i want to help you but i don't know how
to help you
and you know i'm gonna try a couple
things or maybe you can make a
suggestion or like maybe we can work on
this together
right you don't have to figure out the
answer because fixing your attachment
style is not about
figuring out the answer it's about not
facing your problem alone
it's about emotional mirroring not
emotional correction
it's just about the other person meeting
you where you're at
okay so to recap the first thing that
you need to do
is you know be a little bit careful with
who you hang out with
and try to find people that you can
share a half-baked thought with
about your internal emotional state the
second thing that you need to do so this
is where
um if you look at research for people
who are securely attached versus people
who are not securely attached
what you find is that securely attached
individuals
accept their own emotional needs while
insecurely attached individuals
especially anxious avoidant folks do not
so like people believe that they can't
rely on other people's
support which sort of makes sense may
have something to do with the historical
way that they were raised
but the second thing that you need to do
is acknowledge your own emotional needs
right and that can be really confusing
because you may not know exactly what
they are
but acknowledge whatever you can so you
can at least acknowledge that
i'm feeling angry and i'm feeling
frustrated and i feel stupid for feeling
this way
and if someone did do something that
hurt your feelings
you have to be really careful because
you have an emotional need and what you
do
is denigrate or devalue your emotional
need
and in your mind you say it's stupid for
me to feel upset about this
and in doing so you're actually not
acknowledging your emotional need
so the second thing that you need to do
is really be careful because
if you're calling yourself stupid for a
particular having a particular emotional
need
that's what you need to like turn around
right it's okay
for you to have emotional needs that
other people don't understand
now this is also where like you don't
have to blame them for it right but like
acknowledging your own emotional need
is separate from someone else fulfilling
or not fulfilling it
so you can even go to them and you can
say hey like
i know that your friends were visiting
from college and i still really felt
like i wanted to see you last weekend
and i do think objectively that like you
should spend time with them because
obviously
you know they're only here once a year
and like i get to see you every week
so it makes sense to me to objectively
for you to see them
and at the same time i still really like
felt
like i wanted to go to brunch with you
and like i felt kind of
emotionally rejected and i acknowledge
that that may not make a whole lot of
sense
but it's honestly it's the need that i
had like i felt lonely that weekend
last weekend was like you know i felt
lonely
so you can kind of like acknowledge your
emotional need
and be you just have to acknowledge it
you actually don't have to fulfill it
they don't actually have to change their
behavior
the key thing is that securely attached
individuals except
their emotional needs and so this is the
really tricky thing is that like a lot
of people like how do i fix this
and this is where people get really
confused because really fixing it does
not actually have to do with changing
much on the outside
they don't have your partner doesn't
actually have to change and this is
what's so damn confusing for them is
like
when you when they ask you like is
something wrong and you say no and then
they're like i don't know what i need to
change
no one needs to change anything in terms
of behavior
all that really needs to be changed is
awareness acknowledgement of your
emotional needs
and then sharing those emotional needs
for emotional mirroring with other
people
your partner doesn't actually have to
skip out on the weekend with like their
college friends to go to brunch with you
that doesn't actually have to happen
all that has to happen is you need to
acknowledge that emotional need
and like they need to hear you and sort
of like mirror it back
and they can say just like hey you know
i understand that you feel lonely like
this is really important to me can i
make it up to you next weekend
that's all all that has to happen okay
so just to summarize i think a lot of
the reason that men struggle
in relationships has to do with the way
that we're socialized and conditioned
and can be explained
best by something called attachment
theory
what attachment theory kind of relies on
is this idea that
how we relate to other people has to do
with the way that
our emotional needs were mirrored or met
by our parents early in life so for some
people our parents were really are not
necessarily parents but just key
emotional figures
so for some people our parents were very
like
um inconsistent with the way that they
responded to our emotional needs
sometimes they were loving and sometimes
they were neglectful
and that results in something called an
anxious ambivalent attachment style
which is really characterized by
turmoil and mixed signals i feel angry i
feel frustrated i feel stupid
i blame myself for feeling that way when
people ask me what's wrong i say
nothing's wrong when really something is
wrong
so it's like filled with mixed signals
and can make relationships really
difficult
for other people they were sort of their
emotional needs were actually like
not really answered in any way or when i
expressed an emotional need
what i was told is that like my
emotional need is like not
important it's not necessarily neglect
or abuse which leads to a different kind
of attachment style
it's this the quintessential this is
when like i go crying to my dad at the
age of seven i say hey this person
bullied me
and my dad is like you need to man man
the f up and
and you know you have to if he pushes
you you've got to push back
it's like when when kids are in a
situation
where they express an emotional need and
they're met with like a wall
what the kid learns to do is put up the
wall themselves
and so as adults these people become
fiercely independent
or afraid of forming connections and
keep people at arm's length
and so the solution to these things and
the good news is that
early on we thought that this stuff was
determined in childhood
now because of the primacy of selection
effects which basically means
early on you can't control your
attachment style but later on
it turns out that the people that you
hang out with and how emotionally
available they are
can actually fix your attachment style
so the people you hang out with are
going to be crucial and what we want you
to do to fix your attachment style is
first of all
become aware and acknowledge your own
emotional needs
no matter how irrational they are and
secondly
communicate your half-baked confusing
idiotic emotional needs
to your partner and let them emotionally
mirror remember they don't have to fix
anything
they don't have to change themselves
they don't have to do any of that all
you really need to become more securely
attached and understand your emotions
better
is for someone to just mirror and
acknowledge what you feel
okay questions
you